hey guys shredder here it's February the
8th 2010 can't really believe the
weather we've been having haven't hardly
had a single snowfall this entire winter
and it certainly doesn't feel like
winter right now about here and my
shorts t-shirt sitting out in the dryer
garden planning out my planting that
I'll be doing in a couple months looks
like we're having an early spring it's
too bad for the Olympics which is
happening next week just round the
corner
I don't think they're very happy about
it the rest of the continents and a deep
freeze in here in BC were 14 degrees
above Celsius anyways where does silver
come from the reason I have the camera
aimed at the sky is because that is
where silver comes from not any
particular god or gods that as humans
tend to make up but from stars like our
own Sun this may be a bit of a review
for a lot of people but I think some
people don't know this every atom of
silver in existence in the universe was
created inside a star here's a brief
history of the universe about 14 billion
years ago yes we can calculate exactly
when it began the present universe as we
know it originated from a point of very
high amounts of energy and mass in one
spot and has since been spreading itself
thinner over time throughout space I
guess you'd say all molecules and they
believe it was just hydrogen and helium
originally are spreading out and in some
areas there's almost no matter
and you'd call that empty space and in
some areas there is a little bit more
matter and in some areas there's a lot
of matter in one spot and that's because
of gravity gravity pulls every atom in
the universe towards every other atom in
the universe no matter how far away it
is so mmm matter quickly coalesced into
great big balls of matter because it
well because of gravity and when you get
that much matter in one spot it starts
to press against each other and it
starts to crush each other and it starts
to heat up especially towards the middle
of these large blobs and that's what
happens to stars eventually the matter
which is originally was just helium and
hydrogen got hot enough and then it
turned on in other words it became a
star and it started to glow and it
started to the reason it's glowing is
because it is a nuclear reaction a very
very large nuclear reaction that's
taking place and continues to take place
there's so much helium and hydrogen up
in the Sun in our Sun that it's been
burning for millions of years and it
will continue to do so for a very very
very very long time to come before it
even starts to run out of fuel so in
these nuclear reactions the hydrogen and
helium which are very very simple atoms
just a proton and a neutron and a
electron the depending on if you're
talking about hydrogen or helium
hydrogen doesn't have a neutron but
anyways these three simple particles
electrons protons and neutrons combine
together to form every bit of matter
that exists
this is gonna be a long video I can tell
hmm anyhow inside the star that process
continues through the life of the star
and it's converting hydrogen into helium
for example and into slightly heavier
elements eventually the star runs out of
the hydrogen and helium and it starts to
combine the helium atoms together and
helium atoms with hydrogen atoms and
those molecules get added on to and
eventually you have some fairly large
molecules that contain dozens of helium
and hydrogen atoms all combined and
those atoms are atoms like carbon and
nitrogen and oxygen the atoms that make
up life so yes every atom in your body
was once part of a star and in some
stars that are big enough and heavy
enough and old enough and massive enough
there's so much pressure and density in
the core of these stars that neutrons
themselves are free-floating and end up
attaching themselves onto other atoms
and this is how we can build very large
atoms like silver and gold so you are
looking at a creator of silver I don't
think our Sun is making a lot of silver
at this point but maybe a long time down
the road it will how did the silver get
from that star into the Canadian maple
that's in your bullion collection well
when the stars dead in other words it's
used up all of its energy and it reaches
a certain point it will well there's a
lot of different things that can do
depending on its size but certain stars
explode and when they explode they send
all of their elements back out into
space you know supernova and which are
incredibly rare events but there are
just so many galaxies out there and so
many stars in each galaxy over a hundred
billion stars and
galaxy alone and over a hundred billion
galaxies out there there are so many
stars and the universe is so old that
there have been a lot of supernovae
supernovae I think it is anyway that's
how silver gets out into the universe
that's how it was created there was none
there was no silver originally just
hydrogen I believe hydrogen and helium
and from there we have slowly
accumulated silver throughout the
universe over 14 billion years so if you
think about that way I guess you could
say that the amount of silver in the
universe is increasing over time but
here on earth we do have a limited
supply and we are using it up and
running a bit low price isn't reflecting
that right now we're down to $15 an
ounce but that's just for electronic
silver we're not talking about the
actual atoms that you can hold in your
hand that's it for today I am signing
off
I hope that was at least moderately
interesting and I realized it's a bit
simplified and I probably got a few
things slightly wrong as well it's been
a while since I was in physics and
chemistry but that was the basics we're
having a good day keep on stacking